---
layout: post
title: A big project just started today
tags: [linux, gnu/linux]
---

That's it. No clickbait or smth.

I'm starting a new big project from today. It will be a new from-scratch Linux distribution with
some out-of-the-box options. I can't give so much details about the distro's name or the package manager but I'll give some details later these months :)

It will be a completely new Linux distribution from scratch. I'm planning to use OpenRC or systemd, I don't know yet. This distro will mainly
focus on stability, security, privacy and freedom for modern PCs. Freedom as we as human beings and freedom as in FOSS (Free and Open Source Software). This distro will support 
non-free drivers as well. Note that this distro will have some mexican-style GUI with the colors of the flag. 

This distro is in a very early development stage since I already defined the name of it but some of the stuff that I need to learn to build this badass thing are not done yet
so this project will allow me learn awesome cool stuff while building a distro from scratch. Now I can't accept any contributions 'til my knowledge and capabilities allow me to manage issues
and pushes to main. 

I'm planning to use [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) as the default programming language for the package manager's development. Mainly because it is fast, reliable, it has a good Linux integration
with the kernel and some libraries like [libc](https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/), and it fixes common errors in C. I'll give more details about it soon!

Linux does not have too much presence when it comes to Linux distros. I'm planning to reverse that with this great thing. This distro will not have any telemetry, contests or stuff like that. 

Also, I'll develop this while meditating. My physical and mental health (apart from what I've been thing, discovering and researching (not related with this article) these days) is my first priority so,
in this case, I'll use pomodoro sessions and some XP sessions. In case I need to take a break, I'll do it. 

That's it for now :) 

